Cleveland's costly regional jets contributed to United Airlines' hub pullout
Updated: Feb. 04, 2014, 11:00 a.m.|Published: Feb. 04, 2014, 10:00 a.m.
facebook
twitter
By Janet H. Cho, The Plain Dealer
B31AIRLINES_8759914.JPG

United Airlines, United Express and Continental Airlines jets parked at Chicago O'Hare International Airport in this 2010 file photo. Aviation experts say the high cost of operating regional routes may have contributed to United's decision to pull its hub out of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport on Feb. 1.

(Peggy Turbett, Plain Dealer file)

CLEVELAND, Ohio --

The high cost of operating regional flights and complying with new industry regulations helped push United Airlines to withdraw its 
hub from Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, aviation experts say.
Jeff Smisek, chairman, president and chief executive of United Airlines, told United's 1,800 Cleveland employees in a letter dated Feb. 1 that "Our hub in Cleveland hasn't been profitable for over a decade, and has generated tens of millions of dollars of annual losses in recent years. We simply cannot continue to bear these losses."


Of the 199 daily departures out of Cleveland, all but 25 are operated by regional carriers under the United Express banner. In addition, all the flights out of Concourse D at Cleveland Hopkins are United and United Express flights.

Clevelanders might not like what Smisek said, but "he's not lying" about regional service being increasingly expensive to operate and maintain, said Benet Wilson, a Baltimore aviation and travel writer who writes the AviationQueen.com blog.


Aviation and travel writer Benet Wilson




"Continental [Airlines] has been messing around with the Cleveland hub for years trying to make it work," even before it merged with United Airlines on Oct. 1, 2010, she said.

"Continental Express was one of the first airlines to get larger orders of the 50-set regional jets, and back in the '90s and early 2000s, they were like gold, almost flying money-makers. At one point they had one of the largest regional jet fleets in the world."

Then came the 9/11 terrorist attacks, airline mergers and massive cost-cutting efforts, especially after 2004 and 2005, when jet fuel prices soared. "That made the regional jets extremely expensive for them to fly, because they used more fuel than the turboprops did," Wilson said.

Even when every seat was full, "50 seats weren't enough to offset high fuel prices and the cost of operating and maintaining them," especially compared to 30- or 50-seat turboprops. So both major carriers and regional airlines started shedding their regional jets.

When United and Continental Airlines merged in 2010, Continental still had many of its regional jets and United had its own fleet of 50-seat regional jets that it was trying to get rid of, Wilson said.

Silke Forbes, assistant professor of economics at the Weatherhead School of Management at Case Western Reserve University, said pilots who fly regional routes don't get paid as much as the ones who work for major carriers, in part because their unions aren't as strong. "They traditionally have been much cheaper for airlines to use."



Continental Express jets line the gates at Terminal D at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport in this 2010 file photo. Aviation experts say the high cost of flying 50-seat regional jets likely contributed to United's losses at the airport.

But now, under rules that took effect on Aug. 1, 2013, the Federal Aviation Administration has substantially increased the number of flying hours such pilots have to fly before they can climb into the cockpit of a regional jet, making the pool of available, qualified pilots smaller than ever, she said. "So in order to attract these people, airlines are paying them more, raising their costs."


Flights are less frequent and much fuller than they used to be, but airlines are also profitable again after years of losing money, and the last thing they want to do is go back in the other direction.

United may be feeling extra pressure because the Dec. 9 merger of American Airlines and US Airways unseated United-Continental Holdings as the world's largest airline, "so they're going to have an even stronger competitor at Chicago O'Hare," Forbes said.

While United cutting 60 percent of its flights at Cleveland Hopkins is a major blow, Forbes said that doesn't mean that rallying efforts such as "United for Cleveland's Hub" failed. "We don't know would've happened without that campaign," she added.

And not everyone is convinced that expensive regional service was a key factor in United's decision.

Seth Young, director of the Center for Aviation Studies at The Ohio State University, pointed out that while the new rules mean fewer pilots are qualified to fly regional routes, most airlines are focused on "increasing the pilot supply, not downsizing their operations."


Seth Young, director of the Center for Aviation Studies at The Ohio State University


"We're seeing a tremendous increase in demand over the past three years" among students interested in becoming pilots, he said. That's a huge change from 10 to 15 years ago, when there was so much volatility in the airline industry caused by bankruptcies and layoffs, and droves of veteran pilots left the business. Now "airlines are coming to us to say, 'We need more pilots more quickly.'"

Many airlines are paring down to three or four hubs strategically placed throughout the country. For United, it came down to Newark versus Cleveland versus Chicago, and Cleveland was simply the smallest city and the smallest airport in comparison, he said.

"For the past two years, airlines have moved away from the 35- to 50-seat jets in favor of the 100- to 120-person jets," which means larger airplanes that fly less often but carry more people. "To have multiple hubs... does become somewhat cost-prohibitive."

Young said that while in the short run, United's pullout will mean a lot of empty gates at Hopkins' Concourse D, this is an opportunity not only for a competing carrier to expand in Cleveland, but for the city itself to get more flights to destinations Clevelanders want to fly to.

Right now, United brings in lots of regional flights whose passengers are changing planes in Cleveland, but the routes are determined by where the airline wants to go, he said.


"Hopefully another carrier will come in and fulfill the demand that Cleveland deserves to have," he said. "There's so much going on that city and they need this."