United Airlines expects another record profit in 2nd quarter
By Gregory Karp
Chicago Tribune
•
Apr 23, 2015 at 1:14 pm



Expand

From first quarter of 2014 to first quarter of 2015, United showed a $1 billion turnaround. (Brian Kersey, AP)

Chicago-based United Continental Holdings, parent of United Airlines, on Thursday said it earned record profit in the first quarter, more than a $1 billion improvement over the previous year's first-quarter loss.

And CEO Jeff Smisek said he expects the second quarter, despite lower revenue, to set a profit record too, on the wings of lower jet-fuel prices and continued efforts to rein in costs.

3-year-old girl dies following car crash in Dolton, sister hospitalized, official says

U.S. airlines are in a period of prosperity, benefiting from full planes and lower oil prices. Southwest Airlines, the dominant carrier at Midway airport, also reported record first-quarter earnings Thursday. American Airlines, the world's largest carrier and No. 2 in the Chicago market, reports earnings Friday.

United on Thursday reported first-quarter profit of $508 million, compared with a $609 million loss in the same quarter last year. Without $74 million of special items, the airline's diluted earnings — numbers investors look at — were $582 million, or $1.52 per share, up from a loss of $1.33 per share last year. That topped the consensus analysts' estimate of $1.44. The special items included a $50 million charge for previously announced voluntary early buyouts for more than 2,500 flight attendants.

PAID POSTWhat Is This?
Chiropractors Baffled: "30 Second" Stretch Relieves Years Of Back Pain (Watch)
Chiropractors Baffled: "30 Second" Stretch Relieves Years Of Back Pain (Watch)
Reduce Low Back Pain & Sciatica with One Seated Stretch (Watch)

SEE MORESponsored Content by WellnessGuide101.com
Revenue of $8.61 billion, a 1 percent decrease year over year, fell slightly short of the average estimate of $8.62 billion, and was helped by the Easter holiday travel period falling in the first quarter.

However, the airline expects revenue challenges in the second quarter, with revenue down 4 to 6 percent.


The revenue decline will stem from a number factors, including foreign currency pressure, the timing of Easter and some efforts that help profits but place a drag on revenue per passenger.

An example is United's plan to add more seats to economy class by switching to slimmer seats, said Chief Revenue Officer Jim Compton. Those thinner, lighter seats — added to 386 planes so far — contribute to profitability, but because they are in coach don't generate as much revenue per seat as front-of-the-plane seats, lowering overall revenue per seat, he said. And lower oil prices are generally good, but can lead to lower revenue. For example, oil-price surcharges on international flights are disappearing and energy-sector companies are cutting back on corporate travel, he said.

Airlines fees for optional services increased about 8.6 percent to $23 per passenger, driven mostly by passengers upgrading to extra-legroom seats, Compton said.

"Quite simply, our customers value, and are willing to pay for, the extra space and comfort of our Economy-Plus seats," he said, referring to United's extra-legroom seats that generated 16 percent more revenue.

United's profits were helped immensely by lower oil prices. Spending on aircraft fuel dropped sharply, down more than $1 billion, or 36.1 percent, over the first quarter of 2014. That led to 13 percent lower operating expenses overall in the quarter.

Industry analyst Jim Corridorewith S&P Capital IQ said he expects United to continue to generate cash and reduce debt. "We think the revenue environment remains good, and we remain positive on the company and the industry," he said in a note to clients. He rates United a"strong buy."

United officials said the airline's reliability is improving, even during the first quarter, which this year had even more snow and deicing days than last year, the year of the Polar Vortex, Smisek said.

United canceled 17,000 fewer flights than the year before, he said.

United in February had the fewest cancellations of any major carrier, despite having four northern hubs, said Greg Hart, chief operations officer. The improvement is due to changes in the way United handles bad-weather days, including new computer software that helps to redeploy crews, leading to quicker recovery the next day, he said.

United also announced an update to its fleet plan that furthers its goal of using larger jets and reducing use of 50-seat regional aircraft, which customers don't like and are less profitable.

It plans to remove more than 130 of the small regional jets from its schedule by the end of the year and more next year as aircraft leases expire, it said.

Some of that so-called "upgauging" is happening at O'Hare International Airport, where United is using larger planes but flying fewer of them. And it is grouping flights during the day, creating periods of bustle and calm, in an effort to improve connecting options for passengers. That "rebanking" at O'Hare began last month.

Compton said the airline was pleased with early results of the O'Hare rebanking.

United also said it would change plane orders with Chicago-based Boeing, dropping orders for 10 Boeing 787 Dreamliners and instead ordering the same number of 777-300ER aircraft, which have larger capacity and longer flight range. Delivery is expected to start next year.

United said it would also extend the life of its Boeing 767 fleet by adding winglets — upturned wing tips that help fuel efficiency — and upgrading interiors.

It also will move other wide-body planes from international to domestic routes to fly hub to hub and to Hawaii.

The changes do not mean United will be rapidly adding seats to its network, it said. In fact, it reduced its capacity outlook slightly, expecting to grow its total number of seats 1 to 2 percent.

"Customers tell us they prefer larger aircraft, and these fleet modifications will provide more opportunity for our customers to travel on the type of aircraft they prefer," said John Rainey, United's chief financial officer.

In the quarter, United returned about $200 million to shareholders as part of its previously announced $1 billion share buyback program.