United Airlines Rounds Out 2014 with More than Two Dozen Awards
United Airlines logo
NEWS PROVIDED BY

United Airlines 
Dec 05, 2014, 12:05 ET

SHARE THIS ARTICLE
     
CHICAGO, Dec. 5, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- United Airlines continued in 2014 to create a more flyer-friendly experience for its customers, and the company ends the year with more than two dozen awards for its investments in customer products and services, technology and corporate responsibility.

"United's focus in 2014 has been about giving our customers more – more information, more comfort, more control over their travel experience and more benefits for their loyalty," said Jeff Foland, executive vice president of marketing and strategy. "We're pleased with the progress we've made, but we're not finished. Next year, our employees, customers and communities we serve can look forward to continued improvements and investments that will make United an even more flyer-friendly airline."

Customer Experience

This year, United invested in virtually every customer touch point, including Wi-Fi availability on more than 370 aircraft, with additional aircraft being outfitted at the rate of one per day; a multi-million-dollar investment in domestic premium-cabin food and beverage service; new economy-cabin meal and snack choices; and personal device entertainment on more than 180 airplanes.

The company is also creating more user-friendly airport experiences and last month began extensively remodeling its Newark hub terminal, complete with 24 new restaurants inspired by acclaimed chefs, and electronic payment technology with nearly 6,000 iPads with which customers can order food or check flight information. In May, United opened a new state-of-the-art concourse at Boston Logan International Airport and new LEED-certified terminals in Houston and San Francisco, added new Global Services reception lobbies in Newark and San Francisco and opened several new United Clubs. The airline also added more than 500 charging stations for customers to power up their electronics on the go.

2014 Airline of the Year – Global Traveler
Best North American Airline for International Travel – Premier Traveler
Best Airline in North America – Irish Travel Industry Awards
Best North American Airline Serving the Middle East – Business Traveller (Middle East)
Best North American Airline – Business Traveller (China)
Best North American Airline – Business Traveller (Asia-Pacific)
Best Trans-Atlantic Airline – Scottish Passenger Agents' Association Travel Awards
Best Service Airline Award – Incheon International Airport
MileagePlus

MileagePlus is United's industry-leading loyalty program. With a wide network of partners through which members may earn and redeem miles, MileagePlus offers the most "Saver" award-seat availability among the largest U.S. global airlines, according to the fifth annual Switchfly Reward Seat Availability Survey published by IdeaWorksCompany in May 2014. MileagePlus members earn award miles by flying United, United Express, Star Alliance airlines or other airline partners, and by purchasing products or services from partners around the globe. Members enjoy a host of options for using those award miles, including to pay for travel, hotel stays, car rentals and merchandise.

In November, United launched yet another way for MileagePlus members to earn miles with the new "MileagePlus X" smartphone app that members may use when shopping at retail locations. The airline also expanded partnerships with Hertz and Marriott.

Best Frequent-Flyer Program (11th straight year) – Global Traveler readers
Best Frequent-Flyer Bonus Program – Global Traveler readers
Best Credit Card and Best Credit Card Rewards Program, for the United MileagePlus Club Card – Global Traveler readers
Best Frequent-Flyer Affinity Credit Card Redemptions, for the United MileagePlus Explorer Card – Global Traveler readers
Best Domestic Frequent-Flyer Program – Premier Traveler
Best Airline Credit Card Rewards Program in the World – Premier Traveler
Globerunner Best Airline in the Americas Award – Frequent Business Traveler
CIO 100 winner for mobile technology – CIO Magazine
Most Innovative Award – Shanghai Daily
Corporate Social Responsibility

United's global workforce of more than 85,000 employees offers its time, talents and energy to make an impact in their communities and volunteers thousands of hours annually. United proudly supports hundreds of organizations worldwide that work to improve lives through health and education, provide opportunities for youth, connect communities with arts and culture, and improve the environment.

Honored Partner Award – Happy Hearts Fund
One of the Most Admired Corporations for Supplier Diversity – Minority Business News
North American Sustainability Outstanding Achievement Award – Global Business Travel Association
Spirit of Youth Award – National Runaway Safeline
Herbie Hancock Humanitarian Award – Thelonious Monk Institute of Jazz
100% Rating in the Corporate Equality Index and Best Place to Work Award – Human Rights Campaign Foundation
Human Rights Corporate Award – National Immigrant Justice Center
Top 100 Corporations of the Year – Women's Enterprise USA Magazine
Top 100 Companies Providing the Most Opportunities for Latinos – Latino Magazine
About United

United Airlines and United Express operate an average of 5,100 flights a day to 374 airports across six continents. In 2013, United and United Express operated nearly two million flights carrying 139 million customers. With U.S. mainland hubs in Chicago, Denver, Houston, Los Angeles, New York/Newark, San Francisco and Washington, D.C., United operates more than 700 mainline aircraft. This year, the airline is taking delivery of 35 new Boeing aircraft, including the 787-9 as the North American launch customer, and is welcoming 32 new Embraer 175 aircraft to United Express. The airline is a founding member of Star Alliance, which provides service to 192 countries via 27 member airlines. More than 85,000 United employees reside in every U.S. state and in countries around the world. For more information, visit united.com, follow @United on Twitter or connect on Facebook. The common stock of United's parent, United Continental Holdings, Inc., is traded on the NYSE under the symbol UAL.