United Airlines Announces Partnership With National Association of Hispanic Journalists
CHICAGO, April 1, 2011 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- United Airlines, a wholly owned subsidiary of United Continental Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:UAL), announced today that it will be the official airline of the National Association of Hispanic Journalists (NAHJ) special events for 2011.
Link copied

SAVE
Create your free profile or log in to save this article
April 1, 2011, 9:15 AM EDT / Source: GlobeNewswire
CHICAGO, April 1, 2011 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- United Airlines, a wholly owned subsidiary of United Continental Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:UAL), announced today that it will be the official airline of the National Association of Hispanic Journalists (NAHJ) special events for 2011.

"United is proud to support the NAHJ's dedication to the recognition and professional advancement of Hispanics in the news industry," said John Slater, United's vice president of sales-Americas. "Our partnership continues Continental's commitment to the NAHJ and its advocacy for fair and accurate representation of Latinos in and by the media."

Continental began its support of the NAHJ in 2005.

The United-NAHJ partnership includes four NAHJ events: the 22nd Annual Scholarship Benefit in New York on April 1; the 29th Annual Multimedia Convention and Career Expo, June 15-18, in Orlando; and two NAHJ regional events in the fall.

"NAHJ is very excited about this new phase of our partnership and looks forward to extending the relationship that we've developed to United Airlines," said Ivan Roman, NAHJ executive director. "This partnership has blossomed over the years and enabled us to focus on our core programs while giving our members more opportunities to travel to and participate in the training, education and networking events that we offer all over the country."

About United Continental Holdings, Inc.

United Continental Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:UAL) is the holding company for both United Airlines and Continental Airlines. Together with United Express, Continental Express and Continental Connection, these airlines operate a total of approximately 5,675 flights a day to 372 airports on six continents from their hubs in Chicago, Cleveland, Denver, Guam, Houston, Los Angeles, New York/Newark Liberty, San Francisco, Tokyo and Washington, D.C. United and Continental are members of Star Alliance, which offers 21,000 daily flights to 1,160 airports in 181 countries. United and Continental's more than 80,000 employees reside in every U.S. state and in many countries around the world. For more information about United Continental Holdings, Inc., go to UnitedContinentalHoldings.com. For more information about the airlines, see united.com and continental.com, and follow each company on Twitter and Facebook.

Get the Morning Rundown

Get a head start on the morning's top stories.