United Airlines’ new reservations system has customers in a holding pattern
Previous
Jill Lucas-Mertely at her home in the Santa Cruz Mountains...
A United Airlines jet is seen parked at the terminal...
Jill Lucas-Mertely with paperwork regarding her airline miles in her...
Jill Lucas-Mertely at her home in the Santa Cruz Mountains...
A United Airlines jet is seen parked at the terminal...
Jill Lucas-Mertely with paperwork regarding her airline miles in her...
Jill Lucas-Mertely at her home in the Santa Cruz Mountains...
Next
1 of 3
A United Airlines jet is seen parked at the terminal at Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport in Minneapolis on June 4, 2008. United Airlines said Monday will eliminate about 950 pilot jobs beginning this summer in addition to an already announced plan to cut 1,600 salaried positions and reduce its fleet. The Chicago-based carrier says it's still working with the unions on the reductions. (AP Photo/M. Spencer Green)

By JOHN BOUDREAU | Mercury News, Bay Area News Group
PUBLISHED: March 13, 2012 at 9:48 a.m. | UPDATED: August 13, 2016 at 6:11 a.m.
Congested phones lines created by the merger of United Airlines and Continental Airlines caused Jill Lucas-Mertely to break down in tears after spending 18 hours on hold over four days as she futilely tried to book flights to Hawaii using mileage points.

“It’s been absolutely horrific,” said the unemployed Felton bookkeeper, echoing the experiences of countless other customers across the country. “It’s nothing I’ve ever experienced.”

United, which merged with Continental in 2010, shifted its entire reservations system onto Continental’s on March 3, creating massive headaches for travelers and dinging the brand of the world’s largest airline. Though the airline said it was prepared for the switch, new glitches keep appearing nearly two weeks later, said Joe Brancatelli, who operates JoeSentMe.com, a website for business travelers.

“Up until the day before (the systems switch), United said, ‘No problem. We have everything covered.’ Total arrogance,” said Brancatelli, whose inbox is overflowing with complaints from road warriors.

Militia helping Oak Fire evacuees creates furor in Mariposa
In a message posted on its website Monday, United noted that the conversion is the largest in aviation history and that “the vast majority of our systems are functioning as planned.” The company said it is working to reduce wait times, adding, “We apologize if you have had difficulty with your travel planning, and we are grateful for your patience.”

United spokesman Rahsaan Johnson said the company hired an additional 600 agents to handle the flood of calls, many of which he attributed to customers confused about its new website, whose template is Continental’s old one, and glitches with the online system.

Most of the problems have been tied to incorrect passenger information on the airline’s website, such as upgrades not being listed or itineraries getting jumbled, he said.

“Operations have been smooth in terms of checking in, boarding, flights departing on time,” Johnson said. “The issues we are having to work on are customers’ abilities to get the information they want online so they don’t have to call.”

Marc Casto, president of Casto Travel in San Jose, said the airline’s reservations conversion has actually been smoother than similar moves at other airlines. “They moved over hundreds of thousands of reservations overnight while planes were still flying and everybody got to their destinations safely,” he said.


His company, which does as much as $30 million in business a year with United, worked with the airline for a year to prepare for the transition and was able to ease the turbulence for many of its customers, though his agents have also spent one to two hours on hold when they needed to speak with United.

Some fliers are upset after losing some benefits when United combined its Premier status with Continental’s Silver level to create Premier Silver status, Casto said.

Still, he said, “I was expecting we would have multiple (flight) cancellations from San Francisco on an hourly basis. It was almost a nonevent compared with what we thought it would be.”

The experience is just another reminder of the indignities air travelers endure these days in the United States, said Alan Bender, professor of aeronautics at Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University in Daytona Beach, Fla.

“I fly 150 days a year and I have minor versions of this happening all the time,” he said. “As the airlines get bigger and bigger, it is getting worse and worse.”

United has taken a beating on social media sites.

On Twitter, one customer tweeted: “United is the Kmart of airlines.” Wrote another United customer: “Yes, it took 7.5 HOURS for them to call me back. They are a shining example of how not to merge 2 airlines together.” On the airline’s Facebook page, a woman tired of waiting on hold revealed her frustration in a post: “I wish the phone was a person so I could punch it in the face.”

Brancatelli said United appears to have offended its most important customers — business travelers. The system didn’t recognize the status level of a number of elite travelers and other high-mileage warriors who upgraded seats online using the old United system, and then discovered the changes weren’t recorded on the new one.

“When you check in online, it says call United. But you can’t call United. The waits are three, four hours or they hang up on you,” he said.

“It’s not been fun,” said Cupertino-based software analyst R. Ray Wang, who logs about 300,000 miles a year and has United’s ultra elite Global Services status. United airport agents have not received enough training on the Continental system, he said, while Continental ticket kiosks could not process United tickets.

“Customer service is nonexistent,” said Wang, who is now booking flights on other airlines, including the one he took to London this week. “They are like a 9-to-5 operation in a 24/7 world.”

While many business travelers whose companies have corporate deals with United and depend on its extensive routes in the United States and abroad won’t abandoned the airline, others, such as entrepreneurs and venture capitalists, have more freedom to switch, Brancatelli said.

“If you are a United Global Services flier and you are walking away — that is really damaging because you spend a lot of money,” he said. “If Global Services members are walking away, they will feel it on the bottom line.”

Lucas-Mertely admitted she had not been paying attention to the news about United changing its reservations system when she decided to book a trip to Hawaii using mileage points for herself and her husband.

As a result, she spent hour after hour getting transferred, waiting on hold and having the system repeatedly hang up on her. She spoke with more than 16 agents, but none could figure out how to make the reservations.

“They try to transfer you and you get disconnected,” she said. “Or they try to tell you something that isn’t true. Or they literally say, ‘I’m sorry. We can’t help you.’ “

In the end, the couple gave up and canceled the Hawaiian holiday.

Contact John Boudreau at 408-278-3496; follow him at Twitter.com/svwriter.

Report an error Policies and Standards Contact Us
The Trust Project Logo
Be the first to know.
Sign up for Breaking News email alerts.
Email Address
