United to launch new Latin America flights from Houston
 Email Share Share Tweet
 Print Order Reprints
United Airlines will launch its first-ever service to Santiago, Chile, as well as new service to Punta Cana, Dominican Republic, and expanded service to Aruba from its hub at Houston’s George Bush Intercontinental Airport.
Enlarge
United Airlines will launch its first-ever service to Santiago, Chile, as well as new service to Punta Cana, Dominican Republic, and expanded service to Aruba from its hub at Houston’s George Bush Intercontinental Airport.
IN THIS ARTICLE

International Business
Topic
Business Travel
Topic


By Olivia Pulsinelli  –  Assistant managing editor, Houston Business Journal
Jun 16, 2014
United Airlines will launch its first-ever service to Santiago, Chile, from its hub at Houston’s George Bush Intercontinental Airport, Chicago-based United Continental Holdings Inc. (NYSE: UAL) said June 16.

Additionally, United will launch new service from Houston to Punta Cana, Dominican Republic, and expanded service to Aruba.

The Santiago flights launch Dec. 7, subject to government approval. Flights will depart Houston daily at 9:05 p.m. and arrive in Santiago at 9:40 a.m. the next day. Return flights will depart Santiago daily at 10:45 p.m. and arrive in Houston at 5:40 a.m. the following day.

Beginning Dec. 20, United will launch flights to Punta Cana, with year-round service on Saturdays and service on Sundays during periods of expected higher demand.

Also on Dec. 20, United plans to expand its Houston-Aruba service. The airline currently offers Saturday Houston-Aruba flights that are scheduled to continue through mid-August 2014. On Dec. 20, the company will resume Saturday service that will continue through early May 2015 and begin service on Sundays for periods of expected higher demand.

United is the largest carrier in Houston, where it has its largest hub and its principle gateway to Latin America.

Meanwhile, plans are underway at Bush Intercontinental Airport for a larger international terminal to accommodate the plethora of new carriers and additional international flights the airport has signed on over the past year or so.


RECOMMENDED

TRAVEL & TOURISM
Renton's full-scale Topgolf gets opening date

RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE
Katharine Graham’s summer retreat on Martha's Vineyard listed for $39.5M

GOVERNMENT & REGULATIONS
Poll shows Eric Greitens fading in U.S. Senate race



