United Airlines Expands Premium Beverage Menu at United Clubs
U.S.-based lounges to offer wider selection of premium beers, wines and spirits

United Airlines logo. (PRNewsFoto/United Airlines) (PRNewsFoto/)
NEWS PROVIDED BY

United Airlines 
Sep 10, 2013, 01:00 ET

SHARE THIS ARTICLE
     
CHICAGO, Sept. 10, 2013 /PRNewswire/ -- United Airlines today launched an expanded premium beverage menu at its U.S.-based United Club lounges, offering customers local and imported beer choices and a wider selection of wines and spirits for purchase.

Regionals, Imports and Microbrews
United now offers customers as many as 27 imported, regional and microbrew beers for purchase in addition to complimentary domestic beer. The airline expects to rotate the premium beer menu several times a year.

The beer options include: Anchor Steam, Asahi, Blue Moon, Blue Point, Brooklyn Lager, Corona, Fat Tire, Florida IPA, Goose Island, Great Lakes-Dortmunder Gold, Guinness, Heineken, Hurricane Reef Caribbean Pilsner, Inversion IPA, Karl Strauss, Leinenkugel, Long Board, Maritime, Pyramid, San Tan, Shiner, Sierra Nevada, Speakeasy IPA, Saint Arnold and Yuengling.

Premium Spirits and Wines
In addition to expanding the premium beer offerings, United is offering customers a greater selection of spirits and wines at U.S.-based United Club locations. New wine options include a Joel Gott Cabernet Sauvignon, Kim Crawford Sauvignon Blanc, a Donna Paula Malbec and Veuve Cliquot Champagne. Added spirits include Ketel One, Stolichnaya, Hendrick's Gin, 10 Cane and Hennessey XO.

Additionally, United Clubs in several of the airline's hubs, including Chicago O'Hare, New York/Newark, Los Angeles, Houston and Washington Dulles, will offer members a complimentary guided tasting of Glenfiddich until the end of the year. A custom-made bar will offer customers a dedicated area to enjoy a pre-departure dram while learning about whisky.

Availability of the new beers, wines and spirits will vary by club location.

"The newly expanded premium beverage menu offers customers more of what they expect in a beverage selection when visiting an airport lounge," said Martin Hand, senior vice president of customer experience at United. "We are investing in our clubs and providing our customers with more ways to relax and enjoy greater local and global specialties, including regional microbrews and premium wines."

United Club Investments
In addition to expanding the premium beverage offerings, United is investing more than $50 million this year to renovate several of the airline's 49 United Club locations. United unveiled the new design prototype with the opening of the United Club in Terminal 2 at Chicago O'Hare International Airport last year. The airline recently opened newly designed United Clubs at Seattle-Tacoma International Airport and San Diego International Airport.

As with all United Club lounges, members enjoy complimentary snacks, beverages and Wi-Fi.

About United
United Airlines and United Express operate an average of 5,341 flights a day to more than 360 airports across six continents. In 2012, United and United Express carried more passenger traffic than any other airline in the world and operated nearly two million flights carrying 140 million customers. United is investing in upgrading its onboard products and now offers more flat-bed seats in its premium cabins and more extra-legroom economy-class seating than any airline in North America. In 2013, United became the first U.S.-based international carrier to offer satellite-based Wi-Fi on long-haul overseas routes. The airline also features DIRECTV® on 200 aircraft, offering customers more live television access than any other airline in the world. United operates nearly 700 mainline aircraft and has made large-scale investments in its fleet. In 2013, United will continue to modernize its fleet by taking delivery of more than two dozen new Boeing aircraft. The company expanded its industry-leading global route network in 2012, launching nine new international and 18 new domestic routes. Business Traveler magazine awarded United Best Airline for North American Travel for 2012, and readers of Global Traveler magazine have voted United's MileagePlus program the best frequent flyer program for nine consecutive years. According to the 4th annual Switchfly Reward Seat Availability Survey published by IdeaWorksCompany in May 2013, United has the most saver-style award-seat availability among the largest U.S. global airlines. United is a founding member of Star Alliance, which provides service to 195 countries via 28 member airlines. More than 85,000 United employees reside in every U.S. state and in countries around the world. For more information, visit united.com or follow United on Twitter and Facebook. The common stock of United's parent, United Continental Holdings, Inc., is traded on the NYSE under the symbol UAL