How United Airlines came to have a hit LGBT pride T-shirt
 Email Share Share Tweet
 Print Order Reprints

Enlarge
IMAGE COURTESY OF UNITED AIRLINES

IN THIS ARTICLE

Aviation
Topic
University of Florida
Company
Carolina Caraballo
Person

By Lewis Lazare  –  Reporter, Chicago Business Journal
Jun 22, 2018 Updated Jun 22, 2018, 2:41pm CDT
United Airlines’ senior marketing designer Carolina Caraballo has a hit on her hands. She created the design for the 2018 United Airlines’ LGBT pride T-shirt.

The T-shirt went on sale this week at the online United Shop, which makes available to av-geeks and fans of the airline a lot of United-branded merchandise.

CREATE YOUR FREE ACCOUNT
BECOME A MEMBER

Join the Chicago Business Journal to unlock even more insights!


Few items in the shop have received the kind of response that Caraballo’s tee got, however.

Within hours of the United Shop sending out an email blast about the pride tee earlier this week, the inventory was sold out — practically ensuring the piece will be a valuable collectible.

But such is the pull of a strong graphic statement. And Caraballo’s design is nothing if not that.

The design shows a collection of planes trailing the by-now instantly-recognizable LGBT pride rainbow colors. A simple but very appropriate line of copy sits above the planes — “Let your true colors fly.”  The United Airlines brand logo appears discreetly on the T-shirt's sleeve.

Carolina Caraballo designed United's hit LGBT pride T-shirt.
Enlarge
Carolina Caraballo designed United's hit LGBT pride T-shirt.
PHOTO COURTESY OF UNITED AIRLINES

Caraballo has worked for United for two years. She grew up in Venezuela and attended the University of Florida in Gainesville.

So what inspired Caraballo in her design work for United’s 2018 pride tee?

Noted Caraballlo: “My relationship with United’s EQUAL business resource group inspired me. We have a strong history of working so well together, and I wanted to deliver something that our employees and their friends and family members would wear with pride. When I see the design posted on our website or on social media, it makes me so happy.”

The mission of EQUAL, by the way, is to develop, foster and promote an inclusive organization that benefits all lesbian, gay, bisexual transgender and ally co-workers at United, a Chicago-based carrier that has long prided itself on being a diverse, inclusive company.

A large contingent of United employees, many no doubt wearing Caraballo’s T-shirt, are expected to march in Chicago’s Pride Parade this Sunday afternoon.

United Airlines is a unit of United Continental Holdings (NYSE: UAL).